- **What is Data and Its Purpose**
- **Where Data can be stored**
- **Types of Literals OR Values (Data)**
- **Importance of Identifiers OR Variables**
- **Rules for using Variables in Python Program**

**What is Data and Its Purpose**

- Data can be a Collection of Facts obtained from Information.

				OR

- Data can be structured format where we can store and Process whereas Information is Unstructured and can't  Processed.

- Data is most useful for making Effective Decisions.

- When we develop any Real Time application OR project, we must give DATA as an INPUT.

**Where Data can be stored**

- In computing, we can store the Data in Main Memory (RAM) of the Computer and It is Volatile (Temporary) , we can Process the Data in Main Memory and Result can Displayed on the Monitor (Console)

- In Computing, We can Store Result of the Program Permanently in Secondary Memory (Hard Disk) by using Programming Features called Files and Database Programming.

**Types of Literals OR Values (Data)**

In Python Programming, we get 5 Types of  Literals. They are
				1. Integer Literals
				2. String literals
				3. float Literals
				4. Boolean Literals
				5. Collection Literals

**Importance of Identifiers OR Variables**

- In Any Programming Language, Literals Must be Stored in Main Memory by allocating Sufficient  Amount of Memory space with the Help Of Data Types.

- We know that All types of Literals are stored in main memory by having memory space.

- To Process values which are present in memory space , Programmers must give DISTINCT NAMES to the created memory spaces. These DISTINCT NAMES make us identify the values present in memory space and hence they are called IDENTIFIERS.

- The IDENTIFIER Values are Changing/ Varying during Program Execution and hence IDENTIFIERS are also called  VARIABLES.

- Hence All types of LITERALS are stored in the form VARIABLES and all Variables are called OBJECTS.

**Rules for using Variables in Python Program**

To use Variables as a PYTHON Program, we must follow 5 Rules. They are

**RULE-1:** 
The Variable Name is a Combination Alphabets,Digits and Special Symbol UnderScore ( _ )

**RULE-2:** 
The First Letter of Variable Name  Must start  either with Alphabet OR Under Score ( _ ) Only.

			Examples:
	               ```
					a=12----valid
					1a=45---Invalid
					$sal=45----Invalid
					sal=3.4--Valid
					__sal=45--valid
					_1=34--valid
					1_=45--Invalid
                    ```

**RULE-3:**		
Within the Variable Name, NO Special Symbols are allowed except Underscore	

			Examples:
                    ```
						emp sal=45-----Invalid
						emp-sal=45--Invalid
						emp_sal=45--valid
						emp_sal_ibm=56--Valid
						emp_sal ibm=78---Invalid
                        ```

**RULE-4:**	
NO Keywords to be used Variable Names ( bcoz Keywords are the Reserved words and they give Special meaning to the Language Compiler.
			
			Examples:
	                  ```
						if=34--Invalid
						while=45--Invalid
						__while=45--valid
						false=45---Valid
						False=45--Invalid
                        ```
				
**RULE-5:**	
All the Variables in Python are Case Sensitive

			Examples:
                    ```
					> age=99
					> AGE=98
					> Age=97
					> aGe=96
					> print(age,AGE,Age,aGe)-----99 98 97 96
                    ```










